ntroduction to renaissance drama and Shakespeare's othello
No public theatres in his early life
Pageant wagons, religious repertoire
Actors are suspect people
	Vagabond 
	Shakespeare's father licenses troupes
Morality plays
Everyman 1500
	Very general main character
	Presented with vices and virtues
	Riot introduces to pride, lechery, to tavern
	Charity leads out of tavern, weds to humility
From simple plays to othello?
Renaissance makes this possible
Challenge to medieval certainty
	Perception of self and world
	Great chain of being --> everyone in their place
	Pico della mirandola --> We have social mobility
What a piece of work is a man! How nobel in reason! how infinite in faculties! in form and moving how express and admirable! in action how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the beauto fof the workd, the paragon of animals! and yet, to me, what is this quintessence of dust? man delights not me.
-hamlet?
Impact of classical thought:
	Reintroduced to greek philosophy and writing
	Scientific advances?
		Copernican revolution, heliocentric theory
	Discovery of "New World"
	Anxiety producing
Henry VII
	First to let people into court on merit
Within shakespeare some characters haven't adapted to new world
Some know how it changed, and use it their advantage

On othello:
To elizabethans, venice is exotic, renaissance experiment
Act 1 in venice
Act 2 in cyprus
	Mediterranean island
	Surrounded by ottoman empire
	Still tension between greeks and turks
	Duke of venice --> "General Enemy Ottoman"
Venice is fairly stable
Othello --> general of the venetian navy?
Really important dude
Othello is a moor
Subsaharan africa? Debate over how dark he was.
Converted to christianity?
Religion is suspect
Othello is obama
Elopes with desdemona
Othello accused of witchcraft --> only way he could win desdemona
Justice is served
Othello is needed for battle against ottoman turks




Esposition:
	Iago --> most lines
	No prologue
	His art form evloves, starts in mid conversation
	Roderigo: rich and really stupid
	Doesn't understand anything
		Iago tells plan to roderigo
		Too stupid to understand it
Iago:
	I am not what I am
	I am that I am --> god speaks to moses from burning bush
		In his language, he's not a thing
	Motivation?
		Why does he want to destroy othello
		"The motive-hunting of a motiveless malignity"
		-samuel taylor coleridge
			None of them are good enough reasons
		Humans aren't rational
	Embodiment of free will gone bad
Virtue? a fig! 'tis in ourselves that we are thus or thgus, Our bodies are our gardens, to the which our wills are gardeners. ... If the balance of our lives had not one scale of reason to poise another of sensuality, the blood and baseness of our natures would conduct us to most preopoosterous conclusions, But we have reason to cool our raging motions, our carnal stings, our unbitted lusts.
-Iago

Shakespeare concerned about situational ethics

Othello:
	"My parts, my title, and my perfect soul/ shall manifest me rightly"	
	Embodiment of certainty
	Othello is master of language
	Those who control language control the world
Most potetnt, grave and revered signoirs... 
... Rude am I in my speech
And little blessed with the soft phrase of peace,
For since these arms of mine hav sven years' pith
Till now some nie moons wasted, they have used
Their deares action in the tented field'
And little of this great world can I speak
More than pertains to feats of broil and battle; And therefore little shall I grace my cause
In speaking for myself. UYet by your gracious patiensce,
 will a round unvarnished tale deliver
Of my whole course of love...
-Othello

Watch for destabilization:
	Language
	Appearance
		Nothing is what it seems
	Social structures
	Morality itself
Themes:
	Language is power
	Appearance is not reality
