Renaissance humanism
Bunch of little city states
Papal state is a problem
Orsanmichele
	Built by the gilds
	Gilds have political control
For aristocrat to have power, must be part of gild
	Have to work
Signoria
	Council of gild members
	Governing body of florence
	Chosen by lot
Elite gilds and lesser gilds
Considered a republic
	Like roman republic?
Medici family
	Not aristocrafts
	Pharmacists
	Create wealth through banking
	Banking by christians
Medici gives guy money and becomes pope
	Have favor of vatican
Begin to control politics in florence
Maintain form of republic but control elections
	Never formally aristocratic
Cosimo de medici
	Begins to control whose name goes into bag for choosing lots
Rival families (e.g. machiavelli) excluded
Nichola machiavelli
	Machiavellis
	Initially more prominent than medicis
	Get pushed out 
	Machiavelli realizes it's not really a republic
Number of rival families
	Gets quite nasty
	Lots of street fighting
	Exile --> another political tool
Machiavelli
	Tortured then exiled
Lorenzo the magnificent
	Not very good at business
	Lost lots of fortune, but did it on art
	Renaissance man
Medicis LIKE PICO
On why pico was an elitist snob

Ficino to Pico
You write that every day you exhort many to abandon the epicurean impiet or to put aside certain ideas and follow the pious opinion of our Plato upon the soul and God by whic, as by a middle way they may at length attain to Christian piety. Hail then, true fisher of emn,... Our net, mirandola, is now the reason of Plato, which provided it be rightly drawn beneath the Christan truth, does not break but remmains intact and whole while being filled... Therefore, my dear Mirandola, the fewer we are, the more diligently and assiduously we must work.

Pope alexander VI
Cesare Borgia
	Son of Alexander VI
	Murdered a bunch of his rivals
		Jfc
Lucrezia borgia
Niccolo Machiavelli
	Republics are the ideal
	Representation of the elite families
	Discourses on Livy
		Praises republics
	At the threshhold I take off ym work day clothes, filled with dust and mud, and don royal and curaialgarments. Worthily dressed, I enter into the ancient courts of the men ofa ntiqueity, where, warml revieved, I feed on that which is my only food and which was meant for me. I am not ahsamed to speak with them and ask them the reasons of the actions, and they, because of their humanity, answer me. Four hours can pass, and I feel no weariness; my troubles forgotten, I neither fear poverty nor dread

Ludovico Sforza
	condotierro
	Wants to weaken venice
	Best was to do this was french king
	Why not invade italy?
Italian wars
	French king invades
Doge's palace
Charles VIII invades italy
Louis XII
Chales V gets involved
All european war
Completely gross
Crossbow from china
Diplomacy lol
	Ambassadors
	Castiglione
	Machiavelli
Papal nuncio
	Church ambassadors
	Castiglione was papal nuncio

	
